For those of you in physiology, I know you know more. And I know you're probably going to be like, AnaMaria, aren't you forgetting? Yes, I am on purpose. I'm giving you a foundation that way you can build upon it in physiology. I'm not here to teach you all of physiology. I just want to give you a Head Start. Alright, So. Is it more complicated than this? Yes. Will we go as complicated as it is? No. And you'll be thankful because you're going to be like, It's more complicated than this? Now, let's start with basics. In order to be a cell, what are three things that I need? Anatomically. Cytoplasm, cell membrane, and a nucleus. So, If I take a look at a neuron, and don't laugh at my drawing, haha, hey? here is my neuron. Everything I've drawn in black represents my cell membrane. Here is my nucleus, and then everything between the nucleus and the cell membrane is the? Cytoplasm. Also, you can do something here. What is? I can't get it. I just usually get the power from the... Get out of here. Let's go. All right. Now, focusing on the cell membrane. What are the three things that make up the cell membrane?

Proteins, lipids, and glycocalyx. I like the way you said it. I like it. It's is glycocalyx. Those proteins, specifically the integral proteins, help with what important function? Transport, right? We talked about facilitated diffusion. We use integral proteins to move things across the membrane. And I also introduced you to a type of active transport using an integral protein that works as an ion pump. We are going to rely on these channels and these pumps to move ions, charged particles in and out of my neuron. Think of balloons. If you rub a balloon against something, you create a charge of ions that are going back and forth and you get static electricity. That's what we're doing here. We're going to move ions in and out of my neuron and create an electrical impulse that might. We're going to rely on those channels and pumps that are embedded in the cell membrane to do it. We're going to see a combination of active and passive transport. Now, in my neuron here, at any given time, I have ion pumps working everywhere on the membrane. I have some here, I have some here, some of my dendrites, some of my axons, the teledendria.

And these ion pumps are known as the sodium, potassium pumps. This pump operates in the form of active transport. It will pump out 3 sodium ions and pump in 2 potassium ions. I call these our anatomy gang signs. If go like this to you. Three sodium out. What do you show me? Two potassium in. Three sodium out? Two potassium in. Two potassium in. Now when you see each other in the hall, it's going to be like that. What I'm going to do is draw that here. Three sodium ions out and two potassium ions in. Now, the term ion I've introduced you to, ion means that my particle is charged. In this case, sodium and potassium both have a positive charge to them. I'm just creating a key up here so you can keep track. Now, if I have three sodium going out of my cell and two potassium coming in, where do I have more positivity? The outside. The outside. In fact, there is a difference in charge on the outside and inside of the neuron. And this difference is measured at negative 70 millivolts. That's saying that the inside of my neuron is negative 70 millivolts.

The inside of my neuron is 70 millivolts more negativeÅ\there we goÅ\than the outside. Words. I'll say it again. The inside of my neuron is 70 millivolts more negative than the outside. We call this charge, resting membrane potential. Oftentimes, when you're learning about action potentials, you're going to see them in a graph form. This flat line here is on negative 70 millivolts. What keeps my neuron here at negative 70 millivolts? What mechanism? The sodium pump. The ion pumps. The ion pumps. The sodium, potassium, ion pump. The sodium potassium ion pump keeps me at negative 70 millivolts. We had a tape up. I'll leave this up so everybody can take pictures. We are moving. How many sodium ions out? Three sodium ions out. Three sodium ions out. What are we moving in and how many? Two potassium ions in. Two potassium ions in. The sodium potassium pump is keeping the inside of my neuron 70 milliliters more negative than the outside. We say the charge of the membrane is negative 70 millivolts. Does this part make sense right now? Yes. Are there other things that affect this charge? Absolutely. But we're just focusing on this one. One more time.

The sodium, potassium pump, is it active or passive transport? Active. Active. We're looking carefully, if I am moving sodium out, am I building sodium up on the outside or on the inside of the cell? Outside. On the outside. I have a high concentration of sodium on the outside of my cell. If I am pulling potassium in, do I have a high concentration on the inside of my cell or on the outside? Inside. Inside, because active goes from low concentration to high concentration. Yes. Are you good so far? Yes. What this is showing is an up-close example of that pump bringing in potassium and sendingout social. Now, my neuron wants to create an electrical impulse, but in order to do that, you need a stimulus. The stimulus can be all sorts of things depending on the type of neuron. If it's a neuron in our eye, it could be photons in the light. If it's neurons in our ears, it could be movement. If it's neurons in my skin when I press down on them, that is a stimulus. Chemicals in my food, that could be a stimulus. A stimulus is anything that starts the process of creating an electrical illness.

And it does it in a very specific way. Let me see if you know this. I told you acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter, is a stimulus. What do you think the stimulus will cause a neuron to do? Think about what the speed of pulling did between a neuron and a muscle. Take away the muscle and now replace it with another neuron. Ach cross the cleft and did what? Bind to. Bind to sodium channels. What did sodium channels do? They opened. They opened. And where did sodium go? Sodium goes in. Into the muscle fiber. But now since we're talking about a neuron, it's going to go into the? Neuron. On my dendrites and soma, I have integral proteins that are acting as channels, specifically sodium channels. In the presence of a stimulus, which I said could be any of those things including neurotransmitters, what will the sodium channels do? Open up. Open. Where have we been building sodium up? From the outside. Outside of the cell. But now that I've opened up a bunch of channels, where is all that sodium going to go? Going to go inside. -inside the cell from high level. So sodium starts to flood the dendrite and the soma.

Bringing with it what charge? Positive. Positive. I'm going to make the dendrite and the soma more positive. Yeah?

