**Exam 3

 ~
Name cells of Nervous Tissue

neuron(nerve cell)
glial cell

 ~
3 tracts

association
commissurral
projection

 ~
define -
association tract, commissural tract, projection tract
precentral gyrus, central sulcus, postcentral gyrus

within the same hemisphere
between corpus collosum, ant/post commissures
cortext to inferior brain
-
frontal lobe, between frontal and parietal, parietal lobe

 ~
describe how a chemical synapse occurs

At a chemical synapse, an action potential triggers the presynaptic
neuron to release neurotransmitters. These molecules bind to receptors
on the postsynaptic cell and make it more or less likely to fire an
action potential.

 ~
What are 3 functions of nervous tissue.

Tissue
 Responsible for control; information processing, storage, and retrieval;
 internal communication.
System
 Collects information, process and evaluates information, initiates response
 to information.

 ~
choroid plexus, blood brain barrier, csf, myelination

choroid plexus
 Creates the cerebral spinal fluid in each ventricle.
bbb
 Where nervous tissue is protected and circulated, which strictly regulates
 what substance can enter the interstitial fluid of the brain. Keeps the
 neurons in the brain from being exposed to some normal substance, certain
 drugs, waste products in the blood, and variations in levels of normal
 substance that could adversely affect the brain.
csf 
 A clear colorless liquid that circulates in the ventricles and subarachnoid
 space.
myelination 
 Process by which part of an axons is wrapped with a myelin sheath.

 ~
Anatomy of UNI, BI, MULTI

MOST COMMON -A single short cell ext. like a T that results in 2 process from
 one axon.
LEAST COMMON-2 nerve process extend from the cell body.
VERY COMMON -multiple nerve cell processes extend from cell body: typically
 one axon, many dendrites.

 ~
sensory, motor, interneuron

nerve impulse from body to cns
nerve impulse from cns to muscle/glands
communicates between neurons in cns motor/sensory

 ~
somatic motor, autonomic motor, sensory

anterior horn. Multipolar motor neurons send information to voluntary muscles
lateral horn. Multipolar motor neurons send information to involuntary muscles
 in the sympathetic nervous system
posterior horn. Multipolar interneurons that receive information f. sen neurons

 ~
astrocyte, ependymal-cell, microgial-cell, oligodendrocyte

astrocyte
 helps form blood brain barrier, regulates tissue fluid, supports and
 organizes the cns, replaces damaged neurons, assists w/ neural development,
 helps regulate synapse transmission
ependymal cell
 cilliated cuboidal, creates csf, ependymal cells + bv's, choroid plexus,
microglial cell
 smallest in size + #, cleans, phagocytic-removes debris from dead/dying cells
oligodendrocyte
 wrap around many axons, form myelin sheath, filled w/ lipids, white in color

 ~
satellite-cell, neurolemmocyte

protects and regulates nutrients for cell bodies in ganglia.
myelinates and insulates pns axons, allows for faster nerve impulse
 conduction through the axon.

 ~
list functions of csf

clear colorless liquid that circulates in the ventricles and subarachnoid
space. buoyancy, protection, environmental stability.

 ~
gustation pathway

cn vii facial
1.taste:anterior 2/3: gustatory cells CN VII
2.pons
3.thalamus
4.primary gustatory cortex(insula)

 ~
gustation pathway

cn ix glossopharyngeal
1.posterior 1/3: gustatory cells CN IX
2.jugular foramen
3.medulla oblongota
4.thalamus
5.primary gustatory cortex(insula)

 ~
olfaction pathway

1.olfactory cells enter
2.cribiform foramina
3.olfactory bulb
4.olfactory tracts
5.olfactory cortex of the temporal bone

 ~
vision pathway

1.photoreceptors-bipolar cells-ganglian cells
2.optic nerve
3.optich chiasm (dessucation)
4.optic tract
5.(superior colliculi) thalamus
6.primary visual cortex of occipital bone

 ~
equillibrium pathway

cn8 vestibulochoclear sensory equillibrium
hair cells - crista ampularis of macula - vestibular branch - iam
medulla oblongota - cerebellum

 ~
hearing pathway

hearing, hair cells - basilar membrane - 

 ~
location of ventricles

lateral           - within cerebral hemispheres
4th               - between thalamus halves
cerebral aqueduct - brainstem
3rd               - pons and cerebellum

 ~
list the primary-secondary-adult stucture of the brain

protencephalon   telencephalon  cerebrum      fron.par.temp.oci.insula
                 diancephalon   diacenphelon  epithalamus thal. hypoth.
mesencephalon    mesencephalon  mesencephalon cerebral pend, inf/sup collic
rhombenccephalon metencephalon  brainstem     pons cerebellum
                 myelencephalon brainstem     medulla ablongata

 ~
Location of Dural Septum/Dural Sinus
 falx cerebri
 tentorium cerebelli
 falx cerebelli
 diaphragma sellea

longitudinal fissure(between cerebral hemispheres)
  superior/inferior sagittal sinus
transverse fissure(between cerebrum & cerebellum)
  straight sinus(medial)/transverse sinus(lateral)
between cerebellar halves(near vermis)
  occipital sinus
covers pituitary gland in sella turcica
  cavernous sinus

 ~
2 functions of the spinal cord

1.pathway for sensory and motor impulse
2.responsible for reflexes, quickest reaction to stimulus

 ~
conus medullaris, cauda equina, filum terminale

*cervial enlargement - motor upper limbs
conus medullaris - l1 cone shaped end of spinal cord
cauda equina - bundle of nerves, extend inf. from conus medullaris
filum terminale - thin strand of pia mater that anchors to coccyx

 ~
denticulate ligaments, ascending and descending tract

dent lig. - triangular ext. of spinal pia mater, atach dura matter
            stabalizes spinal cord tranversely, each vertebrae
anscen tracts, bundle of axons that send sensory info to spinal card
descen tracts, bundle of axons that send motor   info to spinal card

 ~
plexus, intercostal nerve, reflexes

plexus - network of interweaving rami
intercostal nerve - anterior rami of spinal nerves t2-t11
reflexes - rapid autonomic involuntary reaction of muscles or glands

 ~
monosynaptic, polysnaptic, ipsilateral, contralateral

1 synapse between sensory and motor(fastest)
many synapses between sensory and interneuron, interneuron and motor

receptor and effector on same side
receptor and effector on opposite sides

 ~
sympathetic trunk

beaded necklace-like structure for sympathetic neurons to travel within

 ~
Receptor, Stimulus, sensation, transducer, gustatory cells, olfactory cell
taste buds, vallate papilla, rods and cones, fovea centralis, optic disc
perilymph, endolymph

receptors - receive sensory information
stimulus - external/internal change and processed as senory information
sensation - conscious awareness of sensory information
transudcers - change from one form to another, stimuli-electrical

 ~
 

 

 ~
 

 

 ~
 

 

 ~
end

end

 ~
